we can now bring in Dr zad shahash he is
a resident of Gaza and also I believe a
medical doctor dror thank you so much
for your time with us here on Al jazer
can I ask you for your response to what
we've seen tonight you're a medical
doctor you're watching the aftermath of
what's believed to be an air strike on a
hospital let me ask what you're thinking
right
now okay well uh actually what what
happened is terrible and horrible
because those people all of them are
civilians they they fled from their
houses and reach to a place that they
believe it's a safe because according to
the international law the hospitals are
a safe place so Mo most of them move
there and the rest of the Palestinians
who left their houses ER that they
believe the houses is a in a dangerous
area they they moved to H schools or to
the hospitals actually in in in one
minute all of them killed the AL
hospital this is related to a a
Christian Society in Gaza so there's a
church inside the hospital so we believe
many of Christians already killed as
well so the number right now is a more
than 500 ER the 500 already did but we
believe the number will reach more than
1,000 so this is a massacre so we ask
all the people now actually most of the
medications and the the medical
equipments already finished we ask the
international organization to help to to
provide whatever they can any kind of
assistance but no no one can provide
because already the Border closed so we
ask the people in all over the world to
help to assist the Palestinians the
gazans now we are we are dying every
minute we are dying we we we we cannot
even focus about the PS which is
everywhere but even even that the basic
needs are not available so no water no
electricity no internet no
communication so actually the that's
situation is
unavailable uh so we we need the word to
help now we can see I believe that can
see thousands so I just wanted to ask
about your location because I understand
that you live not far and you're
speaking to us from not far from Gaza
City where obviously 1.1 million people
were told to evacuate a lot of them have
ended up in South and Central Gaza
including a huge number of the people
who were Sheltering at this Hospital
what is the situation like now where you
are are there is there is there anyone
left no actually the majority of the
Palestinians in Gaza mov to the south
region or the the south of Gaza because
they receive warning from Israel and as
well the the plane ER spread like
aures uh and everyone ask every want to
to move outside Gaza City but even those
people who left Gaza City and go go to
the south of Gaza as well they they have
been attacked so even in the middle of
Gaza in canun and Rafa the the
south governorates of of Gaza St as well
under attack so no place is safe in Gaza
the the Kuwaiti Hospital in in
actually which is the the last point in
the south of G Gaza stet already
threatened and receive a warning from
Israel to be destroyed so you you cannot
imagine once we are working inside the
hospital and suddenly we receive a
warning to destroy the hospital so what
about the patients what what about the
the pregnants what about the the the
children who are who who are in the
operations so everyone run run away
everyone fled so screaming crying so we
the situation actually the worst ever
I've seen in my life even if I I I
traveled to to many countries and
attended many wars this is the worst
ever I've seen in my in my life doctor
you mentioned pregnant women there we
know that the UN is saying there are
50,000 pregnant women trapped right now
in the Gaza Strip some I believe 5,500
of them are due to give birth this month
obviously that there are and beyond that
a huge number of people who who require
urgent medical care we've just been
watching really heartbreaking pictures
on our screens of families there who
appear to to be dealing with not only
the trauma of what's happened but but
also the grief of of trying to Grapple
with with what's happened this evening
let me ask you as a medical doctor in
the Gaza Strip right now do you
personally believe that medical
facilities and medical personnel are
being
targeted
actually there's a lack in everything so
the medicine is is not enough uh the the
disposables uh not available so we we we
we ask anyone in the street we ask the
pharmacist the priv sector to to help us
and later on we will uh we will give
them the money we ask anyone to to help
us now everything is not enough now
actually the the main hospitals in Gaza
only receive the emergency cases now for
the pregnant for for anyone has any kind
of diseases we ask them to move outside
the hospital we cannot receive anyone in
the normal case so all the the the
pregnant we are them to go to another
hospital to the private hospitals or to
the charity hospitals but we cannot
receive those in in in the government
hospitals because the all all government
Hospitals now only for for
emergency now I think you know also many
of the main hospitals in the in the
north governorate of Gaza already out of
service because even they are destroyed
or they ask them to evacuate the the
hospital so all the area in the north of
Gaza already evacuated now they are
focusing the attacks focus on Gaza City
after this we don't know they will move
to the South maybe to another
governorate but the situation in Gaza
now we believe it's like the third world
war on Gaza which
is destroyed everything even hospitals
schools most
chur everything under attack in Gaza
doctor I just want to I just want to
clarify one thing there do you believe
that you as a medical professional and
medical facilities in Gaza are currently
being targeted with air
strikes again again I I cannot hear I'm
I'm sorry I was asking you doctor if you
believe as a medical doctor in Gaza
right now that medical facilities are
being deliberately targeted with air
Stripes yes yes I I I believe so because
we we ask the international organization
to provide us with a with a supplements
with the medicines but all of them ER
regret to us and they said we cannot
provide you anything even the private
companies now we know some private
companies they have some some devices
but they said if we open the stores and
provide you these kind of devices like
CT scan ER and other other kind of uh
equipments the the the air strike will
destroy our stores so they regret as
well we ask the international
organization to provide they coordinate
with the Egyptian side to provide us
with all kind of of assistance but as
well in the Egyptian side they said we
receive a warning from Israel in case we
provide you anything they will destroy
the tracks so now we are alone in this
world we believe we feel lonely we
struggle alone we cannot receive
anything actually the situation is very
hard and the conditions are unbelievable
in Gaza Dr zad shahash there both a
resident of Gaza and a medical doctor
himself doctor thank you so much for
your time with us here on Al jazer and
we really wish you and your family all
the best please do stay safe let's now
go to our correspondent Tark Abu aam
he's on the ground there for us in
southern Gaza from Khan yunes Tark can
you give us a little bit of an update as
to what you're hearing I I know the Gaza
Health Ministry is saying now we're
looking at at more than 500 dead said
what do we know about exactly what
happened
tonight well uh another bloody night uh
happens inside the Gaza Strip a very sad
night also for the gazans and locals
inside this perceived uh spot uh till
this current moment the Palestinian
Ministry of Health is trying to identify
and to count the number of victims and
casualties reported and resulted from
the Israeli attack on Al Arab a Hospital
central the Gaza Strip uh this place has
been been attacked by the Israeli air
strikes uh cing till this current moment
around uh 500 uh Palestinian killed uh
without any prior warning uh till this
number even we don't know the Identity
or even the uh the future uh of the
doctors and medical workers inside this
Hospital even this Hospital also
contains uh more than hundreds of
Palestinians who have been wounded due
to the Israeli earlier bombardment of
the Gaza Strip the current situation
inside the Gaza strp is considered to be
a state of of emergency every single
place in the Gaza Strip had been largely
bombarded uh this hospital it has been
has been bombarded without any prior
warning and it contains a lot of
displaced people who were evacuated from
the houses in and Eastern uh areas of
the in the Northern areas of the Gaza
Strip uh those uh those areas those
citizens those those citizens have been
those citizens have been evacuated from
the houses and they find that this place
is a very safe shelter for them it's
also important to say that those
citizens did not find protection so they
thought that's going to be safe uh place
for them and even these hospitals have
been bombarded also nine parts of nine
hospitals were partially damaged due to
the Israeli ongoing strikes the current
situation requires an international
intervention in order to afford the
protection for Medical Teams and even to
open humanitarian corridors in order to
deliver urgent humanitarian aids to
locals inside the Gaza Strip T I just
want to clarify something for our
viewers who've been with us for some
time there are two pictures you're
seeing on your screen right now the one
on the left is actually alifa hospital
where the injured from that other
Hospital bombing are being brought we
initially thought that was the other
hospital and I just want to clarify that
so we've been seeing a large number of
injured people being brought in there on
stretches and in the top right of your
screen where it looks very dark that is
the aftermath of the bombing what's
believed to be the bombing of the Ali
Arab hospital that that's in central
Gaza T we know that that wasn't the only
place that was bombed tonight unra the
UN Refuge Agency for Palestinians um
said that one of their shelters a school
was also bombed and and six people were
killed there what do we know about what
happened
there well uh uh and a school located in
al- magazi refugee camp Central the Gaza
Strip uh Central the central govern side
the Gaza Strip has been bombarded with
without any prior warning claiming the
life of six innocent Palestinians inside
this uh Place uh this place is
considered to be uh an international uh
shelter for uh displaced people who
really evacuated from the Northern areas
and Central areas of the Gaza Strip to
the southern areas meanwhile this
hospital this uh school has been
bombarded and despite the fact that it
has it is located in the in the in the
central uh in the central governate
which is close to the southern governate
of the Gaza Strip also uh this uh
facility uh must be protected by the
principles of the international law
because it's considered to be as a
refugee Center which really can host a
lot of displaced people and provide them
with different kinds of humanitarian
AIDS uh uh to be able to cope with the
current
situation Tark Abu AUM there on the
ground for us in the southern Gaza Strip
thank you so much TK and please do stay
safe yourself we can now speak to nebba
fak uh she is the spokesperson for the
Palestine red present society and she
joins us now on the line from rala nabal
can you tell me your your reaction when
you first heard about what's happening
this evening and I imagine your your
your teams are pretty active on the
ground yes so what happened is just a
genocide it's overwhelming it's
heartbreaking you can't even imagine
foring civilian calili who are in front
of the hospital medical facility and a
hospital this is a side it's a war time
um more than 500 Palestinians including
medical staff have been killed in this
um air strike Israeli air strike many
are still trying to be evacuated our
teams now are responding in the ground
trying to evacuate those who who have
lost their Liv and trying to save as
much people as as they can from those
who have been injured um the situation
is just in believe unbelievable you
can't even imagine taring a hospital um
many Palestinians the number of of this
many people are asking why this number
is so high because um including of these
um civilians are Palestinians who have
told Refugee in in front of the hospital
because they thought they would be in a
saf Place uh when they are in the
hospital but this is not the case in
Gaza this is not the case in Palestine
since everything is a target for Israeli
in strikes everything that means
everything homes schools hospitals
infrastructures medical workers roads
even even places of worship have been
under intense bombardment residential
buildings have been raised to the ground
the situation is just so unbelievable it
can't be described I'm just wondering
what the world is still waiting for what
the world still wa all of this is just
simply war crimes those civilians who
were in front of the hospital were
forced to leave their homes under the
evacuation order they had to leave their
homes because is the occupation forces
as a million2 200,000 Palestinians to
evacuate their homes sorry not ask FS to
evacuate their homes those who are in
Gaza and the north to evacuate their
home to the South and since they can't
afford evacuating to the C because
simply there's no safy place in Gaza
there's complete destruction of the
infrastructure and Road there is no
Transportation they can't even make it
and they are forced to evacuate
themselves under continuous bombardment
the only available par law for them is
going to a
hospital thinking that they would be in
a safy place but unfortunately this is
not the case in Gaza until this moment
we have lost at least 500 civilians
including medical team um I really seem
so much worried about my team I have
already lost four colleagues who are
paramedic they were on Beauty in Gaza
trying to save people life but they have
to lose their life while they were
intentionally targeted I'm saying here
intentionally targeted because Israeli
occupation forces targeted a prcs
ambulance who was uh which was on a duty
trying to evacuate inured people and it
was intentionally targeted the ambulance
was found and all of the staff in it
three colleagues were killed because of
the Israeli airri our emblem is on top
of the ambulance and it should be a
respected emblem all over the world but
it was targeted intentionally because
there is no way it can't be seen it is
very clear from all angles but Israel
intentionally bombed our ambulance and
after less than 30 minutes we had to
leave another colleague who was shot
directly with live ammunition and we
lost four colleagues in this escalation
this should be stopped we call for the
International Community we already call
it twice we call them to stop the
evacuation order immediately we are
under the risk of being bomed at any
second we have received three warning
from the Israeli occupation forces to
evacuate Al Hospital which is in Gaza we
have refused to evacuate we don't have
the means to evacuate 400 patients who
are some of them in the Intensive Care
Unit plus 100 thousands of Palestinians
who are also inside our Hospital who
have to Refugee because they don't have
any place to go as a humanitarian
organization we can't turn about our
back to our people just shut down the
hospital and go and that's what we are
asking the word stop turning your back
to us you have you have to start doing
anything just to try to pressure Israel
to stop this genocide stop this loss
stop this ongoing bombardment for
civilians and please we call to ensure
the protection of our medical missions
facilities so we according to the
international humanitarian law and the
Geneva Convention nabal fasak there
nabal firstly I'm so sorry for your loss
the loss of your colleagues I do want to
ask you one more question you've said
that you believe that you your teams and
medical facilities in Gaza are being
deliberately targeted by Israeli air
strikes and as we know the siege
meanwhile is continuing no food no fuel
no water you yourself have said that the
supplies are running low given the
situation there do your teams have have
the capacity to to respond to an
incident of this magnitude 500 people
dead and and obviously so many more
injured so unfortunately not even our
organization also all of hospitals Ina
are running out of Fu which is needed to
have the electricity which also
extremely needed to run our ambulances
this is plus the medical supplies and
medicines due to the large scale of this
emergency we are working on full
capacity trying to save as much people
as we can however it is important that
the International Community world
leaders to intervene immediately to stop
the evacuation order that is already
threatening hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians who are still stuck in
their homes and in school without having
water or having food or having
electricity they simply have nothing
only fear only fear of what is going
next when my turn will be coming to lose
my life they feel vulnerable they can't
even protect themselves or protect their
families the same for the hospitals like
us as alot hospital we are in a
continuous fear of being bombed at any
moment this is the case after receiving
three continuous warnings from the
Israeli occupation forces to evacuate
the hospital our paramedics are still on
duty for the 11th day although they are
under the thft of being targeted because
of the Israeli warnings although they
have already lost four colleagues we
have recorded at least 15 different
violations against our medical missions
since the beginning of the escalation
four were killed um five were injured
one of them is in a critical injury
eight of our ambulances were damaged
nbal I'm I'm so so sorry for your loss
and and we really do wish you all the
best you and your teams all the best
with your work nabal farak there the
spokesperson for the Palestinian red
cresant Society speaking to us from
ramala thank you nabal for joining us at
this very very busy time for you um I do
want to remind anyone who is joining us
now of what you're seeing in your screen
we are watching the injured being
brought into alifa hospital this is in
the aftermath of what's believed to be
an Israeli air strike on the atly Arab
hospital that the Gaza Health Ministry
says has killed at least 500 people
hundreds of families were Sheltering at
that hospital when that blast took place
let's bring in Maran bashara he's aler a
senior political analyst he joins us now
from London Maran we've watched a
bombardment continue now for 10 days but
does something of this magnitude change
the calculus
here well certainly today was
uh worse than anything we've seen before
um the idea that a school
is bombarded a hospital is
bombarded apartment buildings are
bombarded hundreds many hundreds of
civilians die within
hours that's a a Perpetual
Massacre this is a massacre on a on a
scale we haven't seen probably since the
second world
war and uh it is not uh you know more of
the same uh talk about collateral damage
this is not collateral damage in in a
war
situation the last two days we've heard
from the Israeli leaders notably the
Israeli president himself isak Herzog
saying that there there are no innocent
Palestinians in Gaza saying that they
are all responsible for the
attack on Southern
Israel and hence this massacre does in
fact uh take the shape of a genocide
because there is now a stated clear
intent to hurt the Palestinians they are
not collateral damage killed by mistake
in a bombardment of the Gaza Strip these
are now targeted even the people who are
fleeing for their life to the South are
being bombarded clearly no one is safe
in Gaza nowhere is safe in Gaza nothing
is see you guys Maran we've seen well
attempts at the UN Security Council for
a resolution nothing's happened there
there have been calls multiple calls
from Human Rights organizations for some
kind of a ceasefire also a humanitarian
Corridor neither of those things have
happened where are we at now in terms of
of mediation or or some path forward
does what we're seeing tonight change
the political calculus potentially for
members of the International
Community
it must of course but the International
Community has proven to be impotent and
indifferent in large part and clearly
the part of the International Community
that uh has been flexing its muscle it
has been basically empowering Israel
watching uh the German Chancellor today
just you know wants to make you cry uh
as if never again means never again to
certain people not to humanity as if the
Palestinians are people of a Lesser God
than Jews such indifference such
cynicism such hypocrisy on the part of
western leaders uh this week
today uh simply ignoring Palestinian
Sovereign really uh you know what makes
one question uh a number of things that
one thought were Conant but back to your
question I think I think there is a way
out in the next 24 hours and and please
listen carefully because this is
important those who are meeting with
President Biden
tomorrow Palestinians jordanians and
Egyptians yes they are all on the
American payroll yes they are dependent
on American
assistance but they are also Arabs and
Palestinians and instead of more backs
slapping with the Secretary State they
need now today in light of this massacre
make their position clear we will not
meet with President Biden tomorrow
unless there is a
ceasefire this should have been their
position already before today's
Massacre but now that today's massacres
with hundreds perhaps more of
Palestinian deads thousands of
casualties within one day this
definitely requires a Palestinian Arab
position okay at least a Palestinian
position those Palestinian officials in
Aman who are getting excited about
meeting the American president should
take a political position a moral
ethical position on the side of their
people by simply saying we will only
meet if you the American president put
pressure on Israel that is also in the
American payroll not just American
payroll four plus billion dollars a year
from the American taxpayers certainly
the American president has leveraged
with this genocidal Israeli government
and I think it would be not only a huge
embarrassment this will probably be the
biggest setbacks of all setbacks of the
past two three years if Arab leaders
especially the Palestinian leader tell
the American president look we cannot
afford to be
complicit in your supported war crimes
against the Palestinian people anymore I
think it's doable I think they can get
away with it and I think it will put
enough pressure on President Biden as he
makes his long flight to Aman Jordan to
reconsider and to start putting applying
some pressure on the isra government to
stop their Massacre against the
Palestinians Maran as we watch these
pictures here and we're watching
pictures from alifa hospital where a lot
of the injured have been taken after
that blast at the Ali Arab hospital and
and you and I have spoken about how the
US position or the US tone on the
humanitarian situation in Gaza has
shifted somewhat over the last few days
as we see these pictures including a
huge amount of injured children and
women and as we look at these numbers
which we've gotten from the Palestinian
Health Ministry at least 500 dead what
does this mean for Biden's trip you've
spoken a little bit there about what
Arab leaders should be demanding of
Biden what is Biden's position in going
into those conversations that he's going
to be having with Netanyahu he's going
to be facing huge amounts of pressure at
home absolutely look uh we've seen a bit
of a trajectory the past few days since
secretary blinkin started his uh tour of
the Middle East back and forth between
Arab capitals and clearly there's been
some slight change in tone we are no
longer talking about ethnically
cleansing the Palestinians and throwing
them into
siai
so-called humanitarian
Corridor really really orwan ugly term
of terming ethnic cleansing but now the
Secretary of State is talking about safe
Zone well that's another or willan
concept that's clearly shown it itself
to be today that's just another way of
Israel being able to Target bombing
civilians even those who are fleeing for
their lives even those who are injured
in hospitals even those who are looking
for shelter so there is a change of tone
but there isn't a real change in policy
and that's the problem the American
Administration knowing that the world is
watching and it must be taking some
initiatives aside from its unconditional
support to Israel's genocidal war and it
has become now truly genocidal war in
Gaza they need
to create the impression that they also
care about human life and that they want
to help with the humanitarian disaster
but in in fact by giving Israel the
green light K
blanch unconditional support to carry on
with its bombardment of Gaza they are
not helping at all they're simply
putting a bandaid over a
cancerous policy that is leading to a
continuous permanent Perpetual Massacre
of a people who are basically more or
less
unarmed and just trying to
survive Maan bashara the AL jazer senior
political analyst sharing those thoughts
with us from London thank you very much
Maran well I want to take you to some
live pictures now that we're getting out
of rala as you can see thousands of
people have come out onto the streets of
that City and the occupied West Bank in
solidarity with the people of the Gaza
Strip This this has all happened in the
the immediate aftermath of this blast at
the atle Arab hospital where the
Palestinian Health Ministry says more
than 500 people have been killed a huge
amount of emotion and a huge amount of
solidarity being shared there on the
streets of rala well let's now bring in
Tamara al-rafi she's the spokesperson
for the UN relief and works agency that
looks after Palestinian refugees uh
tomara thank you so much for joining us
and I know what is an incredibly busy
time for you Tamara I I want to get to
what's happened at this Hospital in just
a moment but one of your facilities an
unra shelter was also bombed this
evening what happened
there hi and thank you so much for
hosting me and hosting Ona and bringing
and amplifying the voice of uh
Palestinian civilians in Gaza on your on
your on your screen it's very very
important that we keep telling that
story our initial reports the reports
from my colleague at unra and Gaza are
of direct Israeli fire attacks on two
refugee camps in the middle area of Gaza
maazi and B as a
reminder around a million people moved
from the north northern part of the Gaza
Strip to the South to the middle and
South so the middle and South areas of
Gaza are
incredibly packed densely
populated
and an attack on densely populated
refugee camps where um people uh
displaced people are Sheltering in un
schools and un
premises is something that is utterly
shocking to me and to my colleagues it
is a very Stark violation of
international humanitarian law and I am
lost for words right now about people
having been displaced into was into a
building that has a blue flag of the UN
who left the building during that attack
came back because they have nowhere else
to go people are coming back to a place
that came under
attack Tamara is there any doubt in your
mind that these facilities that were hit
were clearly identified as un facilities
and places of
Refuge absolutely we clearly identify
all our buildings and we share the uh
coordinates the GPS with all the parties
and we share them very very regularly
because we're aware of the movement of
population and we're aware that people
are seeking shelters shelter in our in
our in our premises in our facilities so
yes affirmative all our locations are
shared tomorrow how many people are we
talking about who were in these shelters
when they were hit this
evening that particular building in the
maazi camp hosts hosted 4,000 internally
displaced people so these are people who
either lost their homes or ran away for
their lives thinking that they would be
safe in a un in an HRA
building and and I'm just wanting to get
an understanding here you said that a
lot of them have now gone back to to the
site of that bombing what is the
situation like there now for them I mean
obviously I know supplies have been
running low for some time The Siege
continues is there any form of shelter
left for
them there is very very little for them
uh in that and in many other unaa
shelters
unfortunately because Israel is barring
the entry of fuel and water and food and
medical supplies and hygiene supplies
because of that total siege that Gaza
has been under for now over 10 days
everybody who is staying in Ona
facilities Ona buildings is not getting
the kind of assistance that they should
be getting simply because we do not have
it my colleagues are are running on a
liter of water per day they are
rationing the calorie intake so that
whatever Food Supplies are left can be
stretched to the maximum there's no fuel
coming into Gaza to to enable a water
desalination plant to work for us and my
colleagues to get um clean drinking
water and for the bakeries to use clean
water to make bread it is very very very
desperate in Gaza right now Tamara
you've spoken there about people who
were displaced a million Palestinians We
Believe were displaced who followed an
evacuation order from northern Gaza you
said they were they they they headed
south to Central and Southern Gaza we
know that hundreds of those families
were also taking shelter at the at the
Ali Arab Hospital which was also hit
tonight and and right now we're watching
pictures on our screen of of people the
injured people from that blast who've
now been taken to another hospital uh
I'm I'm just wondering your reaction to
that tomorrow I mean as you say these
are people who were evacuated people who
were displaced people who've now been
well taken any semblance of safety has
been
removed let me ask you for your reaction
to what's happened this evening at at
the AI Arab
Hospital the news were shocking the news
were shocking to us at unra the but the
news were shocking to us as human beings
to think that a hospital can be targeted
with so many injured and sick people
inside it but also so many civilians who
are neither sick nor injured but thought
that they would be safe in a hospital
this is really shocking on a
humanitarian and on a human
level tomara Al Rafi there the
spokesperson for the UN relief and works
agency speaking to us from Aman in
Jordan um one of their facilities well
two of their facilities were also hit
tonight tomorrow thank you so much for
your time with us here on Al jaaz and we
really wish you and your colleagues all
the best with the work that you
do thank you